TRANSCRIPT — Patrick Nil / IQ Capital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZmIn274eds
Fourni par Adrian. Horodatages tels que produits par YouTube.

0:02 This is Patrick Nil. He's a multiple-time world trading champion who ranked among the world's best five years in a row. He's nothing like the average trader. And that's exactly why he's a champion. I am a real counter trader. I like to do always the opposite from the normal people. I never risk more than 1% in my own portfolio. So whatever comes, it doesn't question. But his success doesn't come from risk management alone. Protecting his capital keeps him in the game. But the real weapon is his strategy and it's far simpler than you'd ever expect from a world trading champion. You have a big impulse up and then you have a range and that's what I am looking [for]. And if this is good zones then I trade. Here I have the market profile volume based from the weekly and there you can see on the value area highs and lows.

2:06 [What does a world champion do that most traders would never see?] It's not so complicated what I am doing. I only work much, have many trades the whole year and I'm serious and I make the same all time. That's all. You need an edge and be calm and work and then in the end of year you will be really good.

2:52 [Can you work hard in the wrong direction?] Yeah, sure. For me, I had in the first year the same problem. You learn and learn, but you learn 10 things and what are you trading? Sometimes this, sometimes this, and then you have no good results. Sometimes you don't really know what you are doing when you begin and work hard with no direction.

3:44 [Can order flow / market structure trading work?] Perhaps not all things, but I think there are so many ways. Here in our office we are five, six traders and every trader trades different and there are so many ways and they all work.

4:24 [Mechanical or discretionary?] I am totally a discretionary trader. You must feel the market a little bit and you have your rules and your systematic.

5:07 [What are you trying to understand first?] For me, I use the PBD models from Trade the Traders, from Thomas. So you don't need so much before you begin trading. I am looking to see where the big big money is and where the big traders are and then I search my structures and then I begin trading.

5:41 [What is the PBD model?] If you have a big P — I mean you have a big impulse up and then you have a range and that's what I am looking [for], and if this is at good zones then I trade. And the B is you have impulse down and the range.

6:07 [Impulse up then range, impulse down then range — what part is most important?] The move, and what was before them, before in the last days. You see what was the last days and then you have a big impulse and then you can interpret many things in it.

6:35 [Do you trade the impulse?] No, I trade after the impulse. You have the impulse and the range, and there I wait to [see] if it goes further up or down — that's the thing — or I trade the range. If the range is good you can always play ping pong in the range till it goes out, and there you have — I mean you need your rules but then you can trade it.

7:26 [On the chart] That's how my chart looks. I make for example the DAX from the last some days. And it was good days for me because you see here for example, you have a big impulse, and if you look like this you have here a range. And after the range goes some days, you have — they try to break up, break out, come down, and the range is there. And this is my playground. And perhaps when it goes down to here, I try to find an entry to go another time long. And if we go into the range, I search here a point to go down. That's the things I look [for]. Or if you have here we have another big impulse — oh, it was Trump but it works also there. I don't like the way to trade at the moment because Trump is the biggest indicator, but it works. You see here you have another impulse and a range after it, and here I search — there are my points where I am on the screens and I try to find some trades because that's really good. And now at the moment it's nothing for me. I'm waiting till we are up here on the old zone. Here I search for a short trade and here for a long trade.

9:39 [Market profile] And what I am also looking [at]: here I have the market profile volume based from the weekly and there you can see on the value area highs and lows — they are so important. And you can search your trades always on here, here, and here. It's not always the same way. And sure, you need the footprint to search the right entries and so on. But then you have a place where you have to look, where you can look if it's interesting or not.

10:33 [What does the volume profile tell you?] There are some things you can see on the style of the volume profile — it's market profile. You can read the market if big players are in the market, if it goes fast. You see a little bit where the market wants to go and where are the ways when it goes faster and slower. Here, if you are between — at the moment if we are here between these areas — now we are here between and here are all in freedom, there is nothing. But if we go down here it goes faster. And that you can see really easy and fast with the market profile. It's not exact and it's not the holy grail but you can see where all is in freedom, all are satisfied, and where not, and that helps me to see in some seconds or minutes if it's good to trade or if perhaps not. But for the trade I take the 15 minutes chart because I like it, and then the trade comes, then I look to the footprint and the order flow — not every time but when I am on the screens, sure I look for [it].

12:37 [Recap: impulse, range, easy to find] And if the impulse and the range is on the same level as the market profile, it's even better. If we have a look here at 25 — here also it's the right level to the value area high and that helps me to interpret all, if I use the signal or not. But that is many years of experience, then you know sometimes if you should take the trade or leave it.

13:40 [Then you dial into footprint/order flow for the best entry?] Not every time because I'm often not in front of the screens, but you get better — the trading is better if you do it. It's more exact in the footprint than in the order book. But sometimes I'm too lazy, although I am not so good in reading the order book.

14:23 [Trades held for a longer period?] Yes. At least normally I think one day in the middle, or four hours to three days.

14:36 [Scalping vs letting it play out] You can earn more money if you scalp and have 100 trades a day. I have a friend, he makes about 100 trades a day and his last loss day was three years ago. But for sure if you have 100 trades it's more easy to get profitable. When I have here five trades a day or three, it's possible that all five day trades are losses — that's normal. And for him, if you have 100 trades, he is most time positive. So many people want to scalp because they are faster in the profit but it's complicated.

15:47 [Is this rocket science?] No, not at all. It's really only our PBD models. I always say they are in public, you can find it. Tom made it, learned it in his online coaches. It's not so complicated. It's a little bit complicated how to use it. There are better ways and worse ways, but everybody can learn it, perhaps not in perfection but you don't need it. It's not important if you have some percent more in the year or less. You must be profitable, that's the main thing.

16:42 [Does psychology play a role?] It's really important because if you don't feel good you don't use your rules and you use not every trade. Traders' psychology is really important. For me, I'm a calm man, so perhaps it's more easy, but I see it on the students, they have real problems with it.

17:20 [Do you feel pressure?] If it's too much, I close the markets and go out. If it's too bad, too strong, I have children. I go out with them. It's the best way for me to relax and next day it's the next day, a new begin.

18:05 [Where do you think about profit target and stop-loss?] There are different things. If you have impulse like that, normally the profit target is under the impulse — most time it goes back to the beginning. And the stop — yeah, there are different rules. You can do it over the zone or in the middle or you search something in the back where it's good. There are several different points where you can make the stop, but sure you must do it in the beginning, because if you have no stop loss you don't know how big the position should be. You need it clear where, how much risk you give, how much points. And it's also in my trading not every time the same. Sometimes I do it over the zone or over the top or in the middle, or I look where the volume was in the last candles. There are different things, but you must be clear.

19:33 [The 1% rule and position sizing] The stop loss is how you figure out how much risk to take, how much position you can take, that you can fit your risk management.

19:58 [Would you ever skip a trade because of where the stop must go?] Yeah, sure. Sometimes. But that's experience. Sometimes there is something in the market and you feel it's perhaps not the right day, something — you don't know exactly what — but something is in the market and you miss the trade.

20:31 [Is the profit target planned for a specific reward-to-risk, or managed?] Not every time, because on my swing the best results I have when I don't manage the trade and let it like in the beginning of the trade. But perhaps here when we go to the last days — let's look here. We go out on the market, make a pullback. Let's say we go here short and here is our profit target, only for example. Then I don't want to go into minus if we reach so much. And sure when I'm in front of the screens I manage the trade and perhaps I don't know if I would be in the trade like now, I think I would be out at least here. But it's not every time good if you manage the trade.

22:14 [Best starting point to learn this?] It's not me, but Tom. Me and Thomas, we make an academy and then he helps everybody that he understands the rules behind and why he should do it. But on your own it's really difficult to learn that stuff.

23:00 [Number one mistake to avoid?] I would say learn it good and try it and then it would work. I hope so. But there's no really number one mistake. It's perhaps you understand not all rules. But it's not so complicated, the PBD.

23:28 [Do you look at news / fundamentals?] I try to be not in the market when big news are coming, for sure. But I don't interpret them because it's too much work to interpret all news. We have one person in our community or in our team, he makes that all for us and interprets all and helps us to understand. But I prefer to not be in the market when the big decisions come.

24:34 [Can you ignore fundamentals entirely?] Sure, you can look on the DAX when you see that there are the rules from the last weeks. It's crazy. But this value area high comes two weeks ago. And where does the market stop? On the value area high. Even if it's fundamental — it was the peace, Iran and Trump — but the technical things, they are working here. Sure. Sometimes you don't feel good because I don't like to work when big decisions are coming.

25:56 [What do beginners think is important that you ignore?] To know and understand almost all. Almost all beginners I am talking to, they think they must know all about the stock exchange. But it's not every time good to know and understand all things because then you don't know what you are doing and you are lost in 20, 30 trading strategies.

26:50 [Trader DNA] For me you must know — we call it trader DNA — and it means I am a real counter trader. I like to do always the opposite from the normal people. I like it. But there are so many [ways]. Someone in our team, he's a very good scalper and he makes — that's too much for me, and I'm a slow trader. And you must find your way, what you are feeling good with.

27:40 [Competition vs own money] Oh, there are many differences. I am very serious with my own money because I have only one time my money. And the competition — you need at least one or 200% that you will be seen, and so you have to take more risk in the competition. And on my own portfolio I have a risk management, so I have a risk from 0.2% to 2%, perhaps like this, only very small risk. Because I have my trading style, I have a win rate from 50-60%, and then sometimes I have 10, 20 losses after each other, and in my own portfolio I don't want to have so much drawdown. But in the competition you risk two, three percent per trade sometimes and so you want to run very fast there.

29:14 [Which risk-management rule saved you the most?] I never risk more than 1% in my own portfolio. So whatever comes, it doesn't crash you. Sure, sometimes — it's not that I never break the rule — but it was hard days. There are two, three times in my life I broke the rule and then I always lost.

30:02 [The oil trade] I had one worst trade in my life and after this I thought okay I must use the rule every time, because there are things you never think of. For me it was during COVID. I'm an oil trader and I like to trade oil, and now we are in the war, we were over 120, and during COVID we were at 40, 30, then we are falling down to 20. And when we fell down to 15 we thought hey, oil is so cheap, we must buy very much, because what can happen, we can fall down to seven, eight, but they must produce this and we all drive cars and so we need oil. And the same day it falls down to eight. Then we bought more. We bought more and thought we are the richest man and then it falls down to five and then we closed the trade with really much loss. And the oil goes down to minus 42. It goes into minus. They pay you money if you buy oil. And that would crash all our accounts. And we didn't know that it's possible that oil can go into minus. We thought the maximum risk is to go back to zero and that would be okay. But minus 40 and we have many contracts there. And so I thought ah, the rules are very important also when you sometimes think it's better to do other things.

32:52 [What separates your best days from your worst?] It's not much. My worst ones are most times if I'm inside not really good, and then come two loss trades and then one comes to the other. That's the point, when I can't trade, if I'm nervous or inside not good.

33:20 [Advice for a skilled trader who destroys their progress?] Write it down and make a trading journal and have a really good look at what is good and what is not good, and then push the good things and learn and make it even a little bit better, and forget the bad things — only trade the good things.

33:47 [Do you do any backtesting?] In my old life, when I started, sure. It's important to know what you like, what is good. Backtesting is really good, and if you have new strategies also — also mine, sometimes I test something — and without backtesting you don't know where you are, you're blind most time. Sometimes I also test in the real market with less money, a little bit of money, but testing is really important. Without testing you don't know where you are.

34:29 [Would you trade a strategy without backtesting?] I must be honest. Yeah, sure, I would. But when I do it with only less money. I love to test it with real money because it feels better. If testing without money, it's not real. And if you test with a little bit of money, the losses are not so high and the feeling is great if you have your pizza in the evening with a new strategy.

35:05 [What was most important to see in a backtest?] When I make a backtest, I want to see if it works five years ago, because there are so many strategies, they work for some months and then they are crashed. And so the consistency — I want consistency. I want to see when I make backtests not the result, if it's better or not so good — I want to see the consistency.

35:44 [How do you measure consistency?] It's only the — no, not really. The drawdowns. Sure. I don't want drawdowns which are bigger than 10%. And if the drawdown is bigger than 20%, the strategy is nothing for me because that's too much.

36:11 [Keeping drawdown in check is most important?] The profitability can come after. You must every time have a look: if you have a drawdown from 20% you need a profit of 25% to be on zero, and if you have a drawdown from 50% you need 100% to be break even. And so you must find your way where it's okay with a drawdown or not. And we always say 20% is the maximum you can live [with].

37:00 [Have you had a 20% drawdown?] Yes, sure. In the world championship, yes. In my private account, it's a long time ago.

37:16 [How do you recover?] Trade the same way and it was okay. And that's the main thing — it's not every time good to change if you are in the drawdown. But that's only possible if you know your strategy really really good. If you are not sure with all, then you change something and the drawdown gets even bigger.

37:55 [Secret advice from a world champion?] There is no holy grail in the trading business. You must really find your own way and trust almost nobody because there is so much bull in the markets and everybody tells you he knows all and he is the best. It's not true. Find your own way and be calm and trade. That's all.

38:35 [How do new traders know if they're making progress?] If the losses are not so big. But it's difficult if you don't know if you make the trading right or wrong. It comes with time. You must make reviews. Look if you are in the rules, if you make all right.

39:15 [Anything else to share — the Tom Cruise lesson] I saw an interview from Tom Cruise and I love this interview because they said how is it possible that you are so cool, the best man of the world, and your mindset and all. And then he said, ah, you must know, when I was born I can't crawl. And then I learned crawling. And after that I can crawl. I learned walking. And after I walk, I learned jogging. After I jog, I learned running. And when I can run, I learned sprinting. And after that, sometimes I spring out of an airplane or jump over cliffs. But also for me, I must start from zero. And the important thing is not give up, only make it step for step. And that's in trading, it's the same. All people are thinking you are the best trader of the world after two months and after some videos, and that's not true. You must learn and every time you must take the next step.
