TRANSCRIPT — Tim Flossbach / IQ Capital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BewBId1gbqQ
Fourni par Adrian. Horodatages tels que produits par YouTube.

0:01 This is Tim Flossbach. He's a verified professional trader of over 10 years who went from losing every dollar he had to a multi-million dollar trading account. He trades in front of a live audience every single day where thousands of traders watching try to copy exactly what he's doing. With my team, I build up some very unique indicators which shows me or allows me to see like every liquidation and chart. I'm not thinking anymore like a retail trader. I'm thinking more like a institutional, you know, and I'm very focusing on there where the money flows and um that's where I enter my positions. But Tim has a completely different process from most traders and that's what's got him to where he is today. His entire strategy is predicated on one simple market pattern, liquidation sweeps. Because liquidation is moving the money, liquidation is moving every market to be honest. So you have to see where does the money go and then you have to follow the money and that's why liquidation for me is the key for everything in trading. In trading there is never a 100% point never ever but I think with these indicators and this like liquidation view you can figure it out to 70 30 80 20.

2:04 [What part of your strategy is most important?] I think it's hard to figure out just one point to be honest, but if you are trading like me for over 10 years right now, there will be like a lot of points on the road. And for me, it's like not one signal or one indicator. It's more like a selection of the edge, if you know what I mean. So after the time I learned that I should like not take every trade like I maybe did it in my beginnings like and lost way too much money. Um to be honest I skip more than 90% of the trades I see in the chart and just focusing like on the very good conditions like I have a combination of conditions I take a look over all the day and um for the one or other person it's maybe boring but for me I will always say boring is what pays me.

3:01 [What is a good condition?] Yeah, like a good condition for me I'm focusing a lot on liquidity. So I'm trading a lot with liquidity and I'm taking a special look on liquidation sweep, liquidation hunt. So all these patterns I would say. And the biggest problem I did in my past years was to enter way too fast. The liquidation hunt is happening. I go into a trade but after time I learned ah maybe it's better to wait the one or other minute and I'm waiting for the reversal structures and when I see yes the reversal is fine then I'm entering the trade.

3:52 [You skip 90% of trades — what qualifies?] I wouldn't say there's one or two rules because for me I learned so much in the last ten and a half years and you get a feeling for the chart, you get a feeling for the candles, you get a feeling for the liquidity and I think after time it's like driving the car on the highway. You will see if someone gets out on your way and it's the same with the chart. So it's not always that you have three rules and if these three rules are happening then you enter it. It's more like the feeling. But for me, for example, what I especially take a look on is if the liquidity is like shaking too much, you know, so like high candles up, high candles down, then I will skip it all the time because then maybe there's like a new situation. Trump is making the next post on Twitter over Iran, whatever. And I will skip definitely all the time. I'm waiting for like very clean trending charts, very clean structures, clean ranges, and then I'm trying to focus on the liquidity in combination with some indicators.

5:28 [How would you describe your approach?] With my team I build up some very unique indicators which shows me or allows me to see like every liquidation and chart and what I'm doing is to focus on the very big ones. I'm not thinking anymore like a retail trader, I'm thinking more like an institutional, and I'm trying to figure out where would the institutional enter into a trade and that's what I follow. So I don't try to trade just because I see a symmetrical triangle pattern or a head and shoulders pattern and all this stuff. I think that's like a complete lie of coaches. I'm very focusing on there where the money flows and that's where I enter my positions.

6:21 [Why are liquidations so important?] Because liquidation is moving the money. Liquidation is moving every market. The market is like a sweeping of money. It's all the time — it's an illusion that people think the market is producing new money. It's just exchanging of money. So you have to see where does the money go and then you have to follow the money.

6:53 [What is a liquidation?] Liquidation, it can be like a lot. Some people think liquidation is just like a limit order. But liquidation is just like an area where people place money to be honest. Like it can be a stop-loss, it can be a limit order, it can be a liquidation, it can be a stop hunt, whatever. And you don't have on the order book — you can't see how big every trader is making their positions, but you can see estimated volumes of liquidation in a special range. And if you see this range, you know, okay, if the chart is going to this range, something will happen.

7:45 [So price hits a liquidation zone, a bunch of people get stopped out, and you'd look at this as a breakout?] Completely correct.

7:56 [Is this your main approach?] I would say this is the main thing because for me I have two big things. The one you explained is what I'm doing in my live streams, like intraday trading. It's liquidation hunt. I also trade a lot of reversal structures. And on the other hand what I'm very focused on for the last two years is DCA trading — dollar cost average. You try to figure out a lot of zones to get the best average entry for a longer time period. In crypto right now we are in a bear market so in a very low price range and in these ranges you can build up very good positions for the next six to 40 months and then with the right exit strategy you can make a lot of money.

9:20 [First thing when you pull up your chart?] I do the basics first. Every day I'm doing completely the basics. I'm going always in the weekly and I'm just taking a look at the main levels, which is the trend situation — do we hit any big targets like this liquidation zone. So that's what I focus on first. I don't jump directly into indicators, into EMAs. First of all I'm doing my basic stuff. So here for example right now we have this very old very big zone but as we can see there is a lot of liquidity in this zone, a lot of action, a lot of high up down candles. So I take a look, okay, we are in the same area, so this could be one point that maybe the downtrend is ending here in this area. It's not clear but it's a maybe. So I'm making always a top down analysis starting in the weekly, maybe sometimes already in the monthly, and after this I'm always going to the daily and take a look at the EMAs. Right now I'm focusing on only three EMAs. Maybe you just need two to be honest. I'm using 200, 50, 30, but 30 is like a maybe. You don't really need it.

10:52 [How do you figure out trend direction?] It's one of the easiest parts in trading. Sometimes in the German market for example people make their life so complicated. For me it's just easy. I'm taking all the highs. Let's say we have here the major highs. I'm just taking a look. It's a lower high structure. So we are obviously in a downtrend situation. You can make the same with the lows. You can figure them out. You can combine it. So it's just the absolute basics on the charts. The problem I see all the time in my live streams is that from the beginning people have 200 indicators in their charts. But next to this in my top down analysis for the daily I also take a look at the EMAs, and if you see the red line here it's the 200 EMA — the bear market started here in October 25 and very soon we followed the 200 EMA but on the downside. So in this case you can definitely say we are below the 200 day average. So obviously we are in a downtrend situation.

12:09 [In a downtrend, only looking for shorts?] Of course not. I think also this is an illusion people tell themselves. I don't think that you only have to focus on short trades because also in a bear market we go up and down. But it really depends on your strategy, on the time frame you are trading, on the frequency. If you are a scalping trader then you can't just focus on short trades. In my opinion, you should always be open for both sides. But if you're making very big swing trades, then maybe if you are a beginner you should first take a look at short trades before you go against the trend.

12:54 [How do you know a price zone is important?] I'm just taking the whole picture. This chart is from 2019 and we followed the first bull market and what we can directly see here was the top. First we hit 65 and then we topped to 69 and this price range I just followed it and then you can see the second time we went into the bull market which was from 23 upgoing, we stopped in the completely same range. This is not just random. It's because of liquidity. That's the point because this level is a sell level and if you don't have enough buyers to top this sell level the market will go down and that you saw here. And then comes the most important point: we break out this structure. So we break it to the top and from this day you can tell hey this resistance area is maybe now a support area. And as you can see also here the market reacts but in the opposite way. If it came from downwards you will see a bear reaction or a selling reaction, and now we came from the top and we have a buy reaction, and that's how I figure out these ranges.

14:38 [Applicable in all markets?] Of course, everything I show here today is possible in every market. I traded every market in my life. Right now we are in a Bitcoin chart because at the moment Bitcoin is very good to trade, but I traded a lot of forex, futures, CFDs, like gold, silver, everything, oil also right now.

15:13 [Down to the daily] After the weekly I'm going into the daily. Maybe there's not changing too much, but the EMA structure is changing. Here you can see we reacted down here at 57. We came up. So we have a structure right now with a lot of buy volume. And we are confronting the top, the intraday top. What I'm thinking is very interesting here: we just pushed toward the two EMAs, the 30 and the 50. But we are still below the 200. So maybe there could be happening right now a range trading between these EMA structures. So the first range is here, we have to push up here, and then the second range will be around the 200 EMA.

16:13 [The X-Ray indicator] Me and my team, we figured out a way to show liquidity from the major exchanges from the order books directly into TradingView. It's like a top secret indicator. You can't just find it outside of my platform. But I can show you the first of these. It's called the X-Ray. And the X-Ray indicator is one of my favorite instruments while trading because as you can see, I just marked these ranges randomly before I activated this indicator. But you see, these are the ranges where the liquidity is. You can see these blue lines. These ranges here, these blue brighter and darker lines. These are the replication of liquidity. On the side you can also see the numbers of millions of dollars which is of course leveraged money. But here you can see this is a very very big liquidation zone and this is not random. This is of course because the market shows us also without indicator — because what do you see? You will see the top of the last structure here. This was the top of Bitcoin from the 16th of June and just randomly the liquidation is directly in these zones. So what does it tell me? It tells me there is a very very let's say — if you want to enter a trade you can wait that the market is grabbing this liquidity first. The problem people see here, they say ah there's the top so I am going short in the top, I'm making the stop loss a little bit over and take profit two or three to one. So this would be a normal trade people would enter. But this is wrong in my opinion. You have to wait until the market is going up up up, is grabbing all the liquidity, and then you should focus on the reversal structure that the market is entering to the lower liquidity, and this is one way I am entering into trades.

18:44 [When price moves into these colored regions, what is happening?] You and me, we both know what is liquidity. But we don't know which kind of liquidity. So we don't know if this liquidity block is buying volume, selling volume, liquidation volume. We can maybe say it's 70% stop-loss range, but we never will definitely know. But what we know is there is a lot of money. And as more bright the color is, as more volume is in this specific zone. For example if I zoom in a little bit, you can see here these different numbers. Between the first two lines it's 149 million, 128 million in leveraged volume. So this means very obvious that in this range people maybe get liquidated or have their stop-loss range. So what does the market maker want to do? They want to get them out of their positions before they go into the reversal structure. So what I'm focusing here is I'm waiting until the market is coming up up up and then I'm waiting for the reaction. In yesterday's live stream I did it completely like this. The market was going to the zone but it was a reversal. So the bears were stronger than the bulls and the market was falling down. I'm not entering directly in a short trade, but then I'm going in the lower time frame and if the market goes on with the reaction, I will maybe enter in this candle a short position and go for it.

20:48 [The X-Ray Pro on H4] Before I show you the examples, let's go into H4 because the 4-hour time frame for me is my most favorite time frame to enter big positions. Because you can see the candles a little bit better. So if I take the second indicator, it's called the X-Ray Pro. This indicator is also a liquidation area, but it just shows the big ones. It just shows the institutional money orders, the institutional positions. So it's not a retail trader with $5,000 who has his stop-loss here. It's an institutional position with 50 million volume.

22:13 [Green vs red lines] It's long and short. The green positions are long liquidation side. If the market is falling down then obviously if someone gets liquidated it's someone who has a long position, not a short position. If the market goes up, the red lines, these are short liquidations. So short positions get liquidated or go into their stop loss.

23:07 [Trade example] When the market came here we are in a consolidation after a longer downtrend. And in this situation we saw these green lines. There are the full lines and the dot lines. The dot lines are the liquidations which are not hunted already and the straight lines are hunted already. So what I saw here is, before the market came down, that there is a lot of liquidity. Why? Because this is the absolute low of Bitcoin at the moment. In this situation I was pretty sure, okay, we will definitely see a liquidation sweep here and after we grab the liquidation, it will be 80% upwards a reversal. It's always the same. So what I did here, I was not putting a limit order here just for good luck because of course the market could fall down. I just pointed out this liquidation and then I waited for the reversal structure. The market reversed very very good and I'm just waiting for this down move here because this down move was making a higher low than before. You can see it was changing the trend into an uptrend and that's why I entered here into a long position. Then I took my indicator as well for the risk management because the target point for this was obviously the top of short liquidation which is here with the red lines. So I saw okay, from the last situation we have a lot of liquidity upwards and this is my target point for this trade which was fitting very good. And for my stop loss I made it directly under the situation where the first liquidation grabbed. You can see here was the first liquidation, the first green line, it was entered and that's where my stop-loss range is also.

25:32 [What is a liquidity sweep?] Liquidity sweep is very easy. You see the liquidity, the market is sweeping down, it's grabbing the liquidity and then it's going to the reversal.

25:44 [How do I know we are in a developing liquidity sweep without the indicator?] I don't think that any indicator can tell you that. But it would be nice. Um but I think if you see that in one specific zone there's not one liquidity, for example like this or this, but there is a lot a lot a lot of combined liquidity, then it's definitely a very big alert that the liquidation sweep can be happening. The market always is going very slow to these zones. You saw it here, very very slow ranging, but then with one candle out of nowhere. You saw this red candle here. It was 3:00 a.m. — for us it's mid of night — and then one candle boom boom. Very fast movement. And this is always the same. So as a beginner, if you see there is a lot of liquidity in a very small range, then it should be an alert that the liquidation sweep can be happening here.

26:51 [Can price blow through the liquidity instead?] 100%. So also if I enter here, both sides can always happen. In trading there is never a 100% point. Never ever. But I think with these indicators and this liquidation view you can figure it out to 70/30, 80/20. But of course there's always a percentage that it's going through the liquidity.

27:39 [Why exactly was that your entry point?] What I saw here, the market had its liquidation sweep. In this situation the market blew up and came down here. So of course people would say hey you can also enter here into a long position. It's very obvious, but for me it was not clear enough — the breakout for me, because this is in the 15 minute time frame, I need a very clear breakout. And this told me okay you should maybe wait a little bit more because as you can see there was still liquidity available down here. So in this movement when we came very fast back to the range I thought hey maybe we will also test this liquidity so I will not go into a long trade. It's a little bit of a feeling to be honest and that's why I waited for the strong breakout and this was happening from here, up here. And what I saw then is this red line here. It's a short liquidity. I was waiting for what the market is making on this liquidity. And after I saw hey also here we have a liquidation sweep, I was pretty sure now we have one more reversal. And in this period of time I saw okay this point here, this liquidation, it's also a support and resistance at the same time because you can see it was the top here, near the top here, near the falling start here, and right now we have one more support area here where the market tested this zone. So for me it was a double confirmation and that's why I was very sure after we reacted here. We didn't grab the liquidity. So this showed me the bulls are super strong, the uptrend is super strong, I have to enter here. And then for risk management I knew we didn't have the power to get this liquidation down here, so I should place my stop loss in this range.

29:55 [So: liquidation sweep to the downside, then liquidation sweep on the upside, then on that pullback there was a support point, and that is where we entered. Is this what you do for almost every trade?] I wouldn't say every trade because situations change, but let's say 80%. Yeah, 80% liquidation sweep to liquidation sweep, pullback to support. And that's why I said in the beginning I skip 90% of the trades, because of course this picture of chart, it can't be all the time. But I'm making quite big positions and that's why I don't have to enter every trade. Little percentages to me are worth a lot and that's why I'm just trying to focus on the high high quality setups.

31:08 [Walk me through the mental process] So we saw the downtrend was happening from up here. We have this very obvious high here which was the last high of this cycle and at this time all these red lines here, they weren't grabbed so far, so these are open liquidities. So what I am looking at here is okay, where is — if I want to enter here, I see this liquidation, I am taking a look at: is the liquidation sweep happening? Yes. So I'm waiting for the reversal structure. This was also pretty good here. The next reversal here coming down, support reaction. So I'm entering here into a trade. In this point of view I was pretty sure okay we will not go down here because we tried it one more time but the market followed the uptrend. This is why I placed my stop below this low here. And my take profit — I want to figure out a very big range because what I am doing in my trading situation, I'm taking a lot of small parts of profits. I'm not just waiting for the 100% take profit. I'm making part profits. But in this case I'm taking a look from the last top: where are the liquidations in this zone. And here you saw we have a lot of liquidations in this area, like three or four, and this is why I figured out to make my take profit in this situation. But — and this is the most important point — in this last cycle of trade I'm maybe with 10 to 20% margin in the trade so far, 80% of the trade is managed already, of course stop losses break even and in profit, and I'm taking part profits also based on the liquidation targets. So if we break to one point, then of course I'm seeing okay there's a reversal structure again, so I'm taking one more part profit. Here you saw so much green lines, this was for me a clear signal here you need to make more profits, and that's how I break it down to different parts of the trades with a big range and a lot of small profit areas.

33:49 [Profit target is placed at another clustered liquidity zone because another sweep could happen there?] Correct. Completely correct.

34:03 [The stop loss looked more market-structure based] That's why I said it's not always a signal or always an indicator. You will get over time a little bit of feeling for the market. What I saw here, and this was definitely market based: I saw hey the market was trying to fall down again. After we have the sweep here, market pushed up, came down again, but it made a higher low here. So for me it was clear this zone is definitely a support, because the up range was starting here, and that's why I placed my stop loss below this range. It's definitely market structure. But also I knew we have grabbed the liquidations in this area already. So it's not too interesting for the market maker to push it down here. And if we push it down here, we will definitely fall below this area. And this was a too big range for me.

35:10 [Ideal reward to risk?] I would never ever be in a risk-to-reward ratio below one. It's impossible for me. So a trade like this makes zero sense for me. Also I don't like too small risk-to-reward ratios. Let's say you have a risk-to-reward of one, then you have to hit every second trade to be profitable. If not, you're going to lose. And that's why I'm really focusing on bigger ranges, bigger risk-to-reward ratios with small profits in the range. So I'm taking let's say 25, 25 and the rest to the top. But for me you can say 95% of my trades are minimum 2:1, never below.

36:29 [If the next target liquidation cluster is too close and the reward risk is small, will you not take the trade?] No, never ever. I'm a very big friend of real life examples. Just because something is discounted you shouldn't grab it. If the one thing you always wanted to have is discounted then you can grab it, but not everything that is discounted you should take. And on trades it's the same. You have to come back to your strategy and say no, I'm just taking the high quality setups, and if all the rules are not given then you should skip it.

37:35 [What invalidates a setup?] The most obvious point is news. For example let's say it's Fed decision time and the liquidation structure is clear, but it's Fed decision time. So I would definitely not enter into a trade. I wouldn't say I block news trading because I am very deep into fundamentals and I really love to take a look at the news. But there are some news which are more than liquidation and these news events I will always always skip.

38:34 [What else can invalidate?] Next to news there is one big point for me and this is: respect always the higher time frame. In the beginning I showed you this top down analysis and this is very important for me. Let's say I have this trade here. But I know in the higher time frame there is like an eight-times figured out resistance area here. So this is the biggest resistance in the weekly of Bitcoin and the liquidity is here. Then for me it's pretty sure that the liquidation is not that relevant as the resistance area in the weekly time frame. So this is one point which is very very important for me: always respect the higher time frame. If the higher time frame tells you something else than the 15 minutes time frame, there's no point where you should go with the 15-minute time frame.

39:34 [Scaling out — method or experience?] I would say it's both. It works without experience, but of course it works better with experience. The problem is what people don't think in the beginning — and I was the same — everyone who enters into trading maybe has a period of time where they have a very good hit range. They feel like a superstar. But the problem is every strategy needs to make losses also. Loss is one part of trading. And the points which are not included for traders which are not experienced on the market, points like greed, like fear, like mindset, all these parts are just coming over experience.

40:42 [How important is this indicator, 1 to 10?] For my trading right now it's 8.5. It's a very important part but I can tell you one thing: I can also be profitable without this indicator but it makes my life so much easier. For me, if you are just focusing on liquidity and smart money concept, I don't think that you need at least one indicator to be a profitable trader, but for me it's making my life just much more easy.

42:20 [Final chart words] I really hope that people are going away from these very stupid ideas of trading just a pattern like two lines and thinking wow that's the way to do it. I think it's not working. I saw it in so many cases. So people out there, I can tell you just one point: take a look on liquidity. Liquidity for me was the key and it changed my life forever.

43:12 [Biggest lie traders believe?] The biggest lie people tell themselves is that they have to find the perfect trading strategy. There is no perfect trading strategy. I think the most traders out there who are very long-term profitable, they have a simple system they follow over a longer time period. They don't change the system every two weeks. You should follow one thing, try to learn this thing over a longer time. If then you come to the point and say hey I tried this out for six to 12 months, this is not the way I should do it, then you can change it. But don't change your system too early, and don't make your life more complicated than it is.

44:32 [How to spot a fake trader] I know the German market very well and I was one of the people who sold educational products over time and I saw all these people from inside. One day I told myself Tim, that's not the way you should do it, because I'm trading profitable for a long time of years and I was profitable before I started content creation. I went out of this coaching bubble. I'm doing everything free. I can tell you one very sad point: 95% of every coach in the German region can't trade. They don't live from trading, they live from selling the illusion.

47:40 [Next step for struggling traders] Don't focus on the perfect entry. Don't focus on every candle with every candlestick pattern on every market pattern. It's maybe maximum 10% of trading. Not more. What is much more important is positioning, sizing, exit strategy, trade selection, risk management. All these points are much much more interesting. So protect capital first. Don't overtrade. Don't try to enter every trade and just try to focus on very high quality setups.

48:33 [Any analysis method that flat out does not work?] The biggest point I see is trading patterns. The illusion of trading patterns is one system which is not working. There are patterns that maybe in one or two situations are working on the weekly time frame, but if you're trying to figure out on the five, 15 minute time frame every head and shoulders, falling wedge, ascending triangle pattern, this is illusional. [Did you try trading them?] Yeah, I did in my beginnings and I lost a lot of money with them.

49:40 [Other indicators?] There are quite good indicators. Volume profile on weekly chart, very good. But the thing that most people don't see is that most of the indicators are not real time. They are back time. If you take a look at the RSI and you go back in the chart, it looks perfect. It looks like always if you're oversold you can go into a trade, if you're overbought you can go into a trade. It's perfect. But in real time it's not looking like this. So I think for example the RSI indicator on the weekly chart and take a look at divergence, this is quite good. But to go into the five minute time frame and just go into the trade because RSI is up or down, it's not good. The most important is don't have too many indicators. Take the basics: EMA is quite good, RSI is quite good, volume profile is quite good, MACD is maybe also okay — I don't really like it to be honest, but it's okay. But that's it.

51:01 [Can someone build in the wrong direction?] Definitely. The worst thing people can learn is that they try to figure out trading is based on indicator signals. This is ridiculous in my point of view. I saw it in the German market that people try to teach that if the MACD is crossing with the signal line you should go into a trade. But this is disgusting. If trading would be that easy everyone out there would be a profitable trader after one day.

52:14 [Personal story] When I was in the beginning I had the same illusion and I lost 30k in 5 minutes with 17 years old. My dad gave me $1,000. I went on Binance and made a long position. This was the time period when Elon Musk was entering into the crypto market with Dogecoin and everything blew up. So my investment of 1K with a leverage of 10 went to 30K in a very quick period of time. And then I had my birthday, it was my 18th birthday. I woke up, I saw my phone, 30K, and I told myself okay there are two options. First option, you will have the craziest 18th birthday of your life and you are making today 100K. Second option, you don't make 100K. But I was not clear that I will lose everything. So what did I do? I went all in long with 100x leverage. It didn't take five minutes until it was liquidated. This was a point of my life where I stopped trading for a while. But for me this was the most important point in my career because after some months I came back to the charts and told myself hey Tim, you made 30K out of 1K. It's a 30x. So there is a way to make money in this market, but maybe you didn't find the right way. So I was putting much more time into risk management, position management, entry management, strategies. I made so much backtesting. I journaled everything and then after time I was profitable.

56:50 [How much time does it take?] I wouldn't go 8 hours a day. I think it's way too much because the problem with trading is this is an area where you have to put full focus in a short period of time. Let's say you are trading from 3:00 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. These two hours should be 100% of focus. No WhatsApp, put your phone in flight mode, no girlfriend, no washing, kitchen, nothing. This is 100% focus zone. So what I would suggest is taking 2 to 4 hours a day, it's more than enough.

58:22 [Can trading be a side job?] If you make your trading on a high time frame, on swing trading or DCA, I think you can make it as a side hustle. If you want to be a scalper, intraday or day trader, I don't think you can make it as a side hustle because it's not possible. You can't make scalping next to your main job.

59:17 [When to go full time?] It's time. If you have one month which is profitable, you shouldn't put all your life in a trash. You should have a strategy which is at least profitable for let's say 6 months or 12 months. This is the point where I would say you can take the risk.

1:02:30 [Final advice] I'm two times diagnosed with cancer. I smashed my complete leg. I was escaping the war. I have a lot of real life experience and the one point I can tell you is live your life. Make the things that make you happy. That's all in life because life is short.
