# Range Breakout Expert Advisor Coding Tutorial for MT5 (mql5 Class)
# https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Y6j8_9Hzgk
# 3141 s — 26932 vues — 20250903
# Sous-titres automatiques YouTube, dédupliqués. Erreurs de transcription possibles sur les termes techniques.

[00:00:0] Hey guys, today I want to show you something I've been using for many, many years. It is my range breakout expert advisor. And in this video, we will code a simple version of it. I've been using this program for many, many years with great success in my life and FTMO accounts. So before we start getting into detail, below this video, you will already find links to my website where you can a get a final more advanced version of the program that you can use for free with my partner Brokers. This video is presented by BM Trading. Learn
[00:00:3] to code your own expert advisor. Link in the description. &gt;&gt; So, here you can see a long-term back test already of the strategy. And actually, the strategy is very, very simple. It can be used to identify breakout zones in the morning, usually of a day, just between two points in time. And then if the price jumps above or below this range, we do take a trade and hold it until the end of the day. That's how I trade it. You could of course trade it differently but that's also what we will code in this video
[00:01:0] today. So by the end of this video you will have a fully functioning expert advisor. In this video we will learn how to find the range, how to determine or find out if there was a breakout, how to open the trades and also of course how to close the trades by the end of the day. Also we will have a little look how you can use the program in the strategy tester. So yeah you can just do your own test before you use the program maybe in your accounts. So yeah, I hope you are curious and want to learn more about this. And also at the very end of the video, I will show you some of the
[00:01:3] settings that I use and that have proven to be very good in the last one and a half years that I trade the strategy now in my life account. So again, if you want to use the fully functioning program already, check out the links below this video. But for everyone who really wants to learn how you can code something like this just a very simple version make sure to follow along watch the whole video to get the program for yourself and also then you will be able to adjust the code if you want that. So
[00:02:0] let's go in the meter trader. So there we go here in the meter trader whenever we want to write a program we can go to tools in the upper left corner click on meta quotes language edit draw. So this will open the integrated um development environment and we can use this program to create programs or executables for the meter trader 5. So here again in the upper left corner we can click on new. Click on expert advisor template. Click on next and then we can choose any name. I will just go with range breakout YouTube. You can choose any name you
[00:02:3] like of course doesn't have to be the same. Then click on next next and finish. Oh actually the on timer function here we don't need. It was pre-selected for me but we don't need any of these actually. So, next, next, and finish. And this will create a brand new expert advisor. We do have a bunch of these um lines that starts with two slashes in the beginning. We don't need those because they are just comments and they do not really affect the actual code or the logic of the program. And then, personally, I like to rearrange my
[00:03:0] curly brackets a little bit like this. So, then in the top or at the top, we do have three lines with properties. Also, these properties do not have an impact on the program. So we don't need it. So this is our base skeleton pretty much for our expert advisor. Just three basic so-called event handing functions. They will will be triggered by the meter trader on special occasions. For example, the onet is called if the program is activated on dnet if the program is deactivated and the on tick with every single tick. So the first
[00:03:3] task that we have here is to figure out where the range really is at the yeah between two points in time. So what we want to do here is to give the user a lot of flexibility. We want to create some input variables for this. And usually I go with um yeah you can choose any name. We can choose for example range time or um yeah range time hour start and then we can choose something like from uh three and then we can go uh
[00:04:0] range time minute start could be zero. input and range time um hour and could be six and range time minute end could be zero. So what did I do here? I created four input variables. For input variables it's very important that they are declared outside of any of these functions because they are the variables that the user will be able to change. So if you now click compile here and go
[00:04:3] back to your meter trader, we should be able to find the program already in the navigator in the experts advisor tab. So here you can find the range breakout YouTube program and if you drag it on any chart you will find the inputs list and these are exactly the variables that I declared here with the default values that I chose. All of these values are integer values which means that they are whole numbers like any of those here and yeah they cannot have a decimal point.
[00:05:0] And then um this is just the name for the variable. We need the um yeah the equal sign here to assign uh standard values or default values. The default values are chosen here and then we end in line always or statement with a semicolon. This is it. So we can use these four values now to create the actual or to get the actual times for the range. But before we do this, we want to create two more. And we can say trading and hour could be 18 and input
[00:05:3] and trading and minute could be zero. So this means the range should be from 3 to 6 and we stop trading and delete open orders whenever we have some at uh 6 p.m. So 18:00. So what we want to do next is we want to actually calculate these times and whenever we want to work with times efficiently in the meter trader 5 there is a specific uh variable data type for this it's the datetime data type and if you move your mouse cursor inside of any
[00:06:0] word that has a like a meaning which is like a function name or a variable type and if you move your cursor inside of this and press F1 on your keyboard it should open the reference. You can also go go to tools um or to help I think uh MQ5 reference and it should open also open it and here you can read about everything pretty much that yeah that's important for the MQL5 programming language and the framework and here you can see the datetime type is just a specific variable data type and it is always interpreted by the meter trader
[00:06:3] in yeah in a amount of seconds starting from the 1st January of 1970. So it will exactly give you the point in time. Yeah. Measured in seconds since since this this time here. So it's basically again just any um number like this but usually very huge numbers because there were a lot of seconds already that elapsed since uh the 1st January of 1917. So we want to create three variables here actually. We want to say
[00:07:0] range time start. We want to say range time end. And we want to say trading end or time uh trading time end. I don't know maybe like this or just trading end. Actually we don't need I I don't like it if um the names are too long. So let's just get rid of the time here. Okay. So we create these three uh variables here. And please note again that this is declared outside of any of these functions which makes these
[00:07:3] variables automatically global variables. So we will be able to use them anywhere in our program. So in any function and yeah just just everywhere. And this is important because we will create a default function um to yeah fill all of these variables with logical values. So yeah again these are data variables. You can declare it like this in one line separated by commas or you can also do it in multiple lines like this. It's not that there is a better
[00:08:0] way. It's just a personal preference. Some will do it like this. Some will do it in one line. So if we compile this again, you will see if we go back to our program in the meta trader, these variables do not show up here because they are not input variables. And this is what the difference this uh variable modifier input makes. But these variables are global variables. So it means we can use them in any of these functions. But we can also create our own function. And I want to create my own function and say calculate times for example. If you declare your own
[00:08:3] function, you always do it outside of any other function of course. And then yeah on this global scale again. And here you first of all declare a return type. Every function needs to have a return type which can be any variable type or void. Void is a pretty much means that this function does not return anything which is usually used for functions that um for example update global variables or just used to print
[00:09:0] something then you can use the void data type. Then we choose a name for a function. Usually I choose um the camel case naming convention here which means that I do create a name that starts with a lowercase letter and then every new word so to say in the variable name starts with a uppercase letter. This is by the way also the convention I use for variable names. And here I always go with small letters for the first word
[00:09:3] and then capital letters from that uh point on. The only exception I make is for input variables here. I always use capital letters for every word, even for the first word in a variable name. But this is not really like set in stone. You will find code from other programmers for example who handle this a little bit differently. This is just my personal style. So in this calculate times function, I now want to take these input variables because they come from the user. So the user really can define
[00:10:0] what range he wants to trade. and then I will turn them into actual daytime variables that we can then use easily in the rest of our code to um yeah just check the times and react to them. So whenever we um do something like this the easiest way to do it is to use the MQ datetime structure or it structure in general in Metatrader 5 programming or also many other programming languages. It is just a bunch of predefined variables. So this structure you can see
[00:10:3] it just as a container pretty much for all of these variables that are defined here. So the MQL datam structure is defined in the MQL5 framework and as I said you can read about it in the reference. So what we want to do now is like when we declare the structure like this it will have these variables but the variables do not have meaningful values. They are empty or have random values assigned. I think they are empty in material 5 coding language. So what we want to do is we want to you call the
[00:11:0] time current function and provide the dt ml daytime structure as a parameter for this function. So the time current function looks like this. Again I open the reference with a press of the f1 button. It will return the current time the current server time in the moment that your program is running and the time current function was called. So this means that uh we then get the current time as a datetime variable. We could use this variable then to or this
[00:11:3] value to work with. But also you can see we can also call the time current function and provide a parameter because the time current function can be called with two different signatures. So first uh is if we do not provide any parameter but we can also provide the reference to a MQA datetime structure and this is what we did here. We provided a structure as a parameter which then means you can read about it here again that um the time current function will
[00:12:0] fill all of the variables that were empty until this point in the daytime structure with meaningful values. And these values will then always be for the current point in time when the time current function is called. So this means for us that we do get all of the right values for the current year, for the current months, for the current day, for the current hour, for the current minute, second, day of week, day of year. So how does this look like? We can say, for example, we want to print the
[00:12:3] daytime structure. I'm not sure if it works like this. Can I Okay, but let's let's do it manually. Uh let's just um print some of these values um like this. And by the way, I'm using the print function here which means that the all of this stuff is printed then in the experts. So if I now activate the program, you will see that nothing will happens. But I'm doing this to explain one more thing about functions. So I can activate my program here and you would
[00:13:0] see um yeah in the experts journal it should print something right but there's nothing. And this is because um the calcul types function is not called. But what I can do is for example in the on init uh function which again is event handling function. So the on-init function is called by the meter trader itself when the program is activated and inside of this function. I can now call my own function. If you want to call your own function or any function you just call it by the function name. Provide all of the necessary parameters.
[00:13:3] In this case, there are no parameters requested. And then in the line with a semicolon to have a complete statement. So if I compile again now, you can see there are some print statements here. And if you watch yeah my calendar at the lower right corner of the screen, you can see it's the 25th of August right now 12 or the server time is 12. Yeah, let's go to the 1 minute chart. But yeah, it is accurate. So it's um 1254 when I call the program on 55 and the seconds are also printed. So you can see
[00:14:0] all of the values in the daytime structure are now filled with uh good values and this is helpful because now we can just override a few of them with our input variables and then transform it again or back to a daytime value. So what we want to do is we want to update the hour and here we go with the range hour uh for the start and then we want to update the minute range minute start like this. Okay, I just realized usually
[00:14:3] I like to have it in this order and this is just a personal preference. It does not really change the program. It's just how I like to name my variables to keep it consistent and in the way that I like it. So I usually I like this order. So here I go range start hour and range uh start minute. And this will just override the two variables the hour and the minute in this daytime structure. The rest stays the same. So now I can say uh range start hour and by the way
[00:15:0] oh sorry arrange time start sorry range time start. And here I can now say uh strct to time. And the strct to time function it does pretty much the reversed conversion. It takes a a structure as a parameter and then pushes out a daytime value. So we will give the daytime structure to the structure to time function. It will process this and
[00:15:3] it will return a daytime value. So just a pretty huge number uh the amount of seconds that elapsed since the 1st January of 20 1970 and we store this value in the range time start. So if we again print this uh range time start you will see it is now a meaningful value and it is like oh by the way we also need to change the seconds here. Um I want to override the seconds to zero. And now you can see it will give me for
[00:16:0] the current day the range starting time. And now I can do the same of course for the range uh end hour range end hour and daytime minute range end minute and then range time end will be again strct to time. But the value that is out that is put out of this uh will be different because now we change these two variables in the structure. So you can see um oh I forgot uh some semicolon
[00:16:3] I think. Oh yeah this has to be comma and now you can see I get the range start time and the range end time. And this is super good. And now I just have to repeat this one more time. And you can guess already what I want to do. Uh trade end uh wait what's the name? Trading end hour and trading end minute and then range time. Oh, trading time end. Trading time. I mean it should be
[00:17:0] trading time end, right? Range time. Trading time end. Yeah, I mean the variable names are not like super important. They should just make sense. Struck to time. uh daytime again and this will now give us also the trading time end and this will always give the times for the current day. So you can see this is working and this is super cool because now we will always update all of these values whenever we
[00:17:3] call the calculate times function. So of course we don't really want to do it only in the on init but we would theoretically do it in the on tick function. So with every tick we just get the current the times for the current day. So now what we can do next is we want to create the range. So what we can do here is we can create another function which will be called calculate range. So next to the calculate times function we will get the calculate range function. So here in this calculate range function uh we will update some
[00:18:0] more global variables like range high uh we want to have the range low and do we want to have the range size? don't really need this I think as a global variable but or not now and yeah these are the variables that we want now so since we do have the range start and end time what we can do now in the calculate range function we want to get all of the bars inside of this range or all of the highs and lows more specifically. So
[00:18:3] here what we want to do is we want to say copy high. The copy high um function is a function that will give us a bunch of high values for bars in the chart. For example, we could say for these uh I don't know 70 bars, I want to have all of the high prices and store them in a so-called array. A array is a little bit different. It's not a normal variable. It is a or it can hold a bunch of
[00:19:0] variables of the same data type. So the declaration is really similar to how we learned it before. We just define the variable uh type then we choose a name but then we also add these squared brackets. So if we would not do this um we would just have a normal double variable and double variables they can hold values like this any value with a decimal point pretty much and this would be totally fine. But here instead we do have a uh array which means that if we say highest is equal to this it will not
[00:19:3] work anymore because now we get an error because there's an invalid array excess because arrays always need to define at which position in the array we want to put the value because arrays can hold for example 10 different values like this or they can be of a undefined size and that's actually what we want to do. So we want to have a array of an undefined size and um then we want to call the copy high function to fill this array because if we have a look at the
[00:20:0] reference the copy high function it requests a array as a parameter which means that we do have to provide our heist array here and then we'll just fill all of the highest of a bunch of bars inside of this array. So what bars do we want to have specifically here? We can work with a start time and a stop time. That's easiest for us because we do have these uh two times. So let's have a look at the list here. First of all, we need to define the symbol that we want to get the highest for here. We will just use underscore symbol because
[00:20:3] this variable always contains the symbol name of the current chart. So if we run in XUSD, it will give us XUSD. So gold. Then we need to define the time frame. Here personally for this specific program I would just go with period M1 the one minute time frame. Then we need the starting position. And here you can see we can also provide a start time and a stop time. And I don't actually know which uh in which order this is requested. Start date and time for the
[00:21:0] first element to copy for the last element to copy. I mean you can read about uh all of this. Start time last Tuesday last Friday. Yeah, let's uh go with um time range start time start. Wait, what's the name of my variable? Range time start. Range time start and range time end. And then last but not least, we provide the highest array. So now we will have all of the highest in this array. And now we want to do the same
[00:21:3] thing for the lows. Here we use the copy lows function or copy low which is pretty much the same just for lows because we want to have all of the highest and the lows between these two points in time. And then next we can use uh we we want to get the index of the highest and lowest value in these arrays. I I explained before like when we work with arrays we always have to define the index like this. For example, this would be the third value in the array. This would be the second value.
[00:22:0] This would be the first value in the array and yeah like this we can use indices to address specific values or yeah specific memory in the end in this array. So what we want to do is we want to find the index that gives us the highest value for the highest. So we say index highest and then we use the array um max function function actually and here we just provide our highest array and that's it. The rest of the
[00:22:3] parameters are not necessary because we want to go through the whole array and we also want to find the lowest of course in the lowest array and here we use the array minimum function. So all we have to do now is we have to say range high and here we can say it will be in the highest array at index highest and we use range low it will be in the lowest array at index lowest. So if we now say print range high and print uh or
[00:23:0] also we want to print range low and we compile it like this then we can go to our uh meter trader and here we should see that we print the highest and lowest point between 3 and 6 a.m. So let's quickly check this. I think the highest point should be at three. So um if we open the data window here, we can see the high and the low here. So at three, there was the highest point. Wait, I
[00:23:3] need to go to the minute chart otherwise it doesn't make sense. So let's uh find three. Yeah, it is actually at 3:00 and it was um the height that we see in the experts journal and also in the data window at the right side. So this is correct. And now until six want to find the lowest point and I think it is yeah it should be this one. It's um also correct. We see it in the expert journal printed out from expert advisor and also here in the
[00:24:0] data window. So see that's that is how easy it is to find the highest and the lowest point in um yeah in the mat trader pretty much or in a in a chart. Now all we have to do is um if you want to visualize this of course we can do so by creating an object in the chart and we can say the name of this object should be range plus uh time to string and here we just choose the range start time for example I think then we also
[00:24:3] need time date wait it's time uh date yeah like this should be good and then we can say object create in the current chart which is chart zero with the object name we chose here object uh we want to create a rectangle in the sub window zero the first time should be range time start first price should be range low or range high doesn't really matter actually and then we have time range end and range
[00:25:0] high like this and this should uh actually create the the object in the chart here you can see it here it will create a visualized uh range so now if you want to Say for example object set integer. You can also say of course object name object prop uh fill should be true. I think this should fill the array uh the array if I'm not mistaken. So you can see now the the array is filled. And if you want to change the color you can say object set integer object prop color and you can say for
[00:25:3] example color uh yellow or like whatever you want. So this is um how you can easily create a range a visualized range in the chart and also to yeah this will only work if the range is created for the first time but it will not really update the range. So what we want to do is we want to say if uh if object find and then we go with object uh name I
[00:26:0] think no chart and then object name. If object find is smaller than zero, it means we do not find the object. Then we want to do all of this. But otherwise, we want to just update the object. So here want to say object set double. And then we say zero object name object object property price. And here we want to update the first price. So modifier is zero I think. Range high or range low actually. And second one
[00:26:3] object name object prop price uh modifier one object uh orange high. The modifier just tells us if we want to uh update the first or the second price because here we always have to provide two prices of course to build a rectangle like this. And yeah if we compile it it should work. So now I want to get out of this like normal chart and I want to go to the strategy test. You can open the strategy tester by clicking
[00:27:0] on tools. Um, wait, no, you can click on view strategy tester. It will open the strategy tester. Then I want you to click on visualize. Here you can choose the program you want to test. We will of course want to test our range breakout YouTube program or whatever name you chose. I want to go with gold here. Make sure to choose the M1 chart cuz we are pretty much working with the M1 chart. I mean, it's not super important. No, actually you can also choose the M15 for example or the M5 or whatever chart you want. Yeah, let's go with M15. And then
[00:27:3] you can choose a testing period. I will just go with the current year. And then you can also see here you can choose to change the inputs. But for now we just want to want to go like this. So I quickly click start in the lower right corner. Download the history and then you can see that the program is uh simulated on historical data. So that's how you use the strategy tester to stretch to test your actual strategy. So here we want to wait until uh 3:00 in the morning. And we can see that
[00:28:0] unfortunately nothing happens because we have an array out of range error which means that we have to make sure that in this line we do not access an invalid index. So this is something we should only do if there are values in these arrays. So we can easily fix this. We could say for example if array size highs or array size lows is smaller than zero or smaller than one we want to return. And here we also need to check
[00:28:3] if it's smaller than one. So what did I do here? Um if this is confusing to you I'm using an if control structure. If control structures can be used to check a specific condition and then do some something if the condition is true or yeah not do something if a condition is not true or actually I also did it here already without explanation. Maybe this is a even better example. So here I first of all use this if statement. It's just if and then in round brackets the condition. So you usually compare two
[00:29:0] different values and here I compared for example the return value of the object find function and object find will return minus one if it does not find a specific object with a specific name in the defined chart. So here I check if object find is smaller than zero because this means that the object doesn't exist then I want to create it but if the value is greater or equal zero then the object exists already and then I do want to do something else. So it's the same stuff that I do here. Here I say if and
[00:29:3] then I check if array size for high array is smaller than one which means that basically I want to check if there are values in this array or if array size for the lowest array is smaller than one. So if any of these arrays is empty then I just want to return and return can be called from inside of a function and it will just um return yeah the re resite for this function and as I said before functions can either return a value in this case it's for example
[00:30:0] integer value or if you use void it doesn't return anything so we just say return and do not return anything but if we compile it like this go back to our pro um mat trader 5 and click the strategy tester. I start the strategy tester again. Now you can see like between 3 and six we do create this range and if the range gets bigger the range gets bigger and yeah that's basically it. So every single day we do see a range now and you can see the name of this object this range object is a range and then the the date where we
[00:30:3] create this. This is because um yeah the definition we chose for the object name. So that's how you basically every single day calculate the range and display it in the chart. And we do not only have the range, we do also still have like the range high, range, low, etc., etc. stored in these uh global variables here. So this is what we want to use now because now after displaying all of this, we also have to open positions, right? So what we want to do is again work with if statements. And here we can now say or first of all, let's get the
[00:31:0] bit price uh symbol. Symbol info double is a function that we can use to specify a symbol and then get a lot of information for this specific symbol. So for example, we can get the the bit price using the symbol bit uh identifier here. This will give us the bit price and now we can easily check if the bit price is greater than the range high because then we have a long breakout or if the bit price is smaller than range low. And also this is something we actually only want to do if range high
[00:31:3] and range low do have actual values and if the current time is greater than the uh range start time. So what we want to do here is we can for example check before we do any of this actually we can also do it here I think want to check if time current time current again is it just gives us the current uh point in time we used this before and I explained it. So I want to check if this is greater than the uh range time end because then we want to start trading right and then move all of this inside
[00:32:0] of the if control structure and then we get the bit price then we um check if bit price greater than range high or if bit price is smaller than range low actually here we can also I mean it's not really necessary I think but we can also check if range high and range low are greater than zero which means that we do have values for these uh variables and then here want to buy and here we want to sell right. So for buying and selling the easiest way to do so in the meter trader is to include the trade
[00:32:3] m file. It is a separate file that you can also find in your mat trader meta editor on the left side in the navigator go to include then find the trades folder or trade folder and then see trade.mp. So this is basically just another file which holds a class definition. This goes a little bit into the topic of objectoriented programming which I do not want to explain in this video but just in short it will um yeah give us access to a class uh which we can use to open closed and manage
[00:33:0] positions. If you want to learn more about MQ5 programming and also object-oriented programming etc etc. Make sure to check out my website em.bmtrain.de de also linked in the video description below this video and you will find a complete programming course where I explain everything in much more detail than in my YouTube tutorials and also super beginner friendly. So even if you never coded before you will learn everything in this course. So now since we have this uh trade class I want to create a trade object for now in this tutorial we just
[00:33:3] need to know that we can now use this trade object to open maintain and close positions. So here I can easily say trade dot buyy. Now I want to open for example one lot. Here I can say uh trade dot sell and sell one lot. So now if we compile the program again and do another quick test just to see that positions are open. We can see once we do see the breakout here we will open positions. The problem is just that we open like a lot of positions actually like a bunch
[00:34:0] of positions and um yeah that's not not really what we want. So instead, what we should do here is we should make sure that this only happens once per day. And we can also do this uh multiple times per day if we want. But um yeah, maybe for now in this tutorial, we just want to see maximum one trade per day. So we want to create a boolean variable for this. For example, is trade. And now we can say once position was open, we want to say is trade is true. And this goes
[00:34:3] for buy and for sell positions of course. So if there is any position is trade will be set to true. Then also before we open positions we want to check if is trade is false. By the way these boolean variables that are just um the data type that I just used it can only be true or false or in other words zero and one. So it's a very small uh yeah memory that we take for this specific variable. So this will make sure that we only open one trade if
[00:35:0] there is the first breakout on the day. And then also we might need to make sure that here if we see a new day. So if there's a new day then we want to reset this is trade variable. And we can for example do it in the calculate times function. So here we could say for example we could see that before we update the range time start we check if range time start has a different value than strike to time. this or actually
[00:35:3] then we have to move it here. Um because this will make sure that if there is a new day and then of course this will return something else then the value that is stored inside of here then we want to ish say that is trade will be set to to to false pretty much and we could theoretically also reset the range high here and the range low um yeah would maybe also make sense. So if we compile it like this and we go back to our meter trader then we can see that is if I test the same test again um just
[00:36:0] with these little modifications we will only open one trade every single day. So the first trade out uh breakout is uh yeah realized as a trade here I think we don't see a trade because because we don't have enough money but this is something uh something else I need to take care of. So now we only saw that positions are open but they do not have a stop loss which is of course not really what we want. So let's take care of this also. So before or when we open the position using the buy or sell
[00:36:3] function of the C trade class, you can say we can see we can also specify the symbol we want to open the price and the SL and TP. So here I want to say we want to calculate ASL but not a TP. So to calculate the stop loss or actually we don't really want to calculate it. We just want to say the stop loss should be the range low for buy positions and for sell positions it should be the range high. Right? So if I compile like this and do another test. This is now a lot of testing but I just want to show you
[00:37:0] how simple changes can really make a huge difference because now you can see every trade now has a stop loss at the other side of the range. So this is already a much better program. So now next step is um we want to close positions of course also in profit. So this is why here if time current is greater than range time end we want to open search for for position openings but also if time current is greater than uh oh also we only want to open positions if time current
[00:37:3] is also smaller than trading time end. But if uh the time current is greater than trading time end or greater equals trading time end then we want to close all of positions right and to close all positions the best way probably is to just I mean there are multiple multiple ways we could do this. We could have like we could track the tickets of our uh range breakout EA that that were opened by this program or we could just
[00:38:0] say we want to close all of the positions maybe all of the positions with a specific magic number. So this is always good to have a magic number for your program because expert advisor can choose to open trades with a magic number. It's not really that magic. It just means that the positions that are opened by this specific expert advisor, they will have the magic number like somewhere stored in the background. So to make sure that all of our positions are open with this magic number, we need to set the expert magic number for a trade object. And we will just choose
[00:38:3] the magic from the input list here. And then now here we can say uh if the time is greater or equal than the trading end time we want to loop through all of the positions in the uh in the account and we can loop through it like this. So we use a simple for loop with this which is another control structure and for loops always look like this. four is just like the signal for the program that there comes a for loop and then in
[00:39:0] round brackets we do have three parts like the first part before the first semicolon is just the initialization. So before the for loop is actually executed or starts we kind of create another integer variable named I and it will be initialized with the amount of positions in this account minus one. So if we have three positions in the count I would be two. If we have one position I would be zero. Then we check the main condition of the loop between the first and second semicolon here and uh it just uh is the main condition. So if this condition is
[00:39:3] true whatever in the body of the for loop is will be executed. So the body is between these curly brackets. So um yeah which means that um just after checking this condition the body will be executed and then the last part here will be executed which is after the second semicolon. So after every execution of the body of the for loop this will happen. So in short I will be initialized with a value position total minus one then it will be then the body will be executed if the condition is true and afterwards I will be reduced by
[00:40:0] one. So you can see the the combination of the condition in this uh piece of code here and make sure that if I is reduced by one by the way this is the same as writing this. It's just a shorter form. So if we reduce i by one every single time the loop or the the for loop was processed or executed it makes sure that at some point if you reduce a number by one every single time at some point it will be smaller or equals zero. So um yeah then it's the time when the for loop is uh finished
[00:40:3] process completely and then we leave the for loop. So what we want to do here is we want to get the ticket or actually no we we want to say c position info. This is another class that that we can use. Again, I will not go into detail detail here, but this class will help us to select and work with position. So, we can say position select by index. Now, the index will be I and then we can say if we uh oh, I also want to check if position magic is equal to the magic
[00:41:0] from the input list. This makes sure that we found a position of this EA. Then we use our trade object and say position close. And then we just provide the position ticket which we can get again uh from the position object using the position uh sorry the ticket function like this. So if we compile this and go back to our program run the same program again with yet another little modification. You can see that at 6:00 p.m. or 18:00 the positions will be closed. And yeah you can also see it here in the history. The exit was done
[00:41:3] at 6 PM. So this is um yeah this is already a working program like like you could use this like you can see this is right now generating profits. It will not of course make profits every single day but it is a very simple and effective uh breakout program and um yeah so there's some more you could do. You could for example say here right now we trade with the same uh position size every single time but you could also say you want to have a variable position size. And this is I think uh yeah maybe
[00:42:0] the last thing I want to show in this short tutorial because you could say yeah of course here we hardcoded the lot size but you could also say you want to have a input for this like input integer uh input double uh risk or let's say we want to risk a specific amount of like money like for example €50 per trade and if we compile and then now we do have this input variable so now we can say before we open the positions we want to calculate the lot size and here we could create a function calculate lots for example and then use this lot size to
[00:42:3] open the positions. So calculate lots and now you can see this will not work of course because the calculate lots function is not defined. So we get a bunch of errors. So let's make sure to change this at the bottom of our program. We create the calculate lots function. Make sure to realize that here I use the double as a return type because we want to return something. So if I now compile, you can see we get another problem here because now it's
[00:43:0] not void. So the program expects us to return something. So we could say return 1.0 for example. Okay. So next we want to calculate the the lot size for the trades. So we will need to know for that we need to know a few things. First of all we want to get the tick size and the tick value. I guess we can get this this using the symbol info double. If we say symbol trade tick size and also tick value can be received using symbol info
[00:43:3] double here we use symbol trade tick uh value and then we want to get the h stop-loss distance the stop-loss distance is just yeah basically the range size which will be the the range size let's say range high minus range low this will be the range size so then we can calculate the lots or the risk per lot which will be uh range size divided by tick size multiplied with tick value. So
[00:44:0] this is how much we would risk for one lot because this tick value is based on um on one lot always and then we just need to check how often we can put this into our risk. So what we want to see is we want to say uh risk money divided by risk per lot. And I think this should already be it. Then let's make sure to round this normalize double to a precision of two or whatever your broker wants. And then we can uh return the lot
[00:44:3] size. This will not include like commission and stuff. So it's not like 100% accurate. Also the rounding might be a little bit different. But yeah, you can modify this if you want. But so far this is I think a good mechanism to just calculate the lot size. So it should so theoretically we should risk always uh the same in this expert advisor for every single trade. So here now we can see that now the trade size should be different for every trade. Like here for example you can see 0.04 0.06 and it
[00:45:0] depends. So the smaller the range is the bigger the lot size is of course and yeah of course if we see a stop loss then we lose around 50 because that's what we put in the inputs here as risk. As I said, it can be a little bit higher of course because of commission and also because of slippage etc etc. But it's a very simple function to calculate a variable lot size. So if I now fast forwards this uh you can see that yeah sometimes there are like a big wins,
[00:45:3] sometimes there are losses but overall I used this program for many years already and is working out quite fine. So, in the end, I just want to show you a little bit more of a long-term back test for a few years, so you have a good understanding of what you can do with this program. Um, yeah, but before this, let's check the the code one more time. So, it's a very simple version of my range. EA. I don't want to make this a like 3hour long tutorial. Also, as I said before, like you can use the the
[00:46:0] final or a more uh refined version already for free of the website with my partner brokers or you could also learn how to create a more complex function in my programming course. Both is linked below this video. But in this tutorial, we had a look at the simple version. So, we included the trade.m file. We created a bunch of input variable variables. Again, these are the ones that the user can change also. Then we do have a bunch of global variables because we want to use them in different functions. And then we do also yeah we add the trade
[00:46:3] object variable. Then in the on in it we also set the magic expert number. This is important later on for closing the positions. Then in the on function we use um we call the calculate times and calculate range function. The calculate times function is just used to um yeah first of all update all of the daytime variables the global data variables that we use to define where the range is and when to close the positions and also in this function we check if we have to reset the is trade variable and the range high and range low. In the
[00:47:0] calculate range function we get the range high and the range low. So just we get all of the highs first of all for one minute candles between the two points in time and also for the lows. Then we check if there are values already in these arrays. If there are values values, we get the highest lowest index and then we get the highest and lowest price. And then yeah, of course also we can create the visual object. Actually, this is not necessary. It's just a visualization for the trader. But the program doesn't really care if there's an object in the chart or not.
[00:47:3] Then yeah, let's talk about the calculator lots already at this point. It's the last function that I just created. Here we get the tick size and tick value for the current chart symbol where the program is running. And again this is always based or especially the tick values based on one lot. Then we get the size of the range which is just range high minus range low. Then we get the amount of ticks in this range by dividing the range size um by the tick size. And then we multiply this with the tick value. This will give us the risk for one lot again because tick value is based on one lot always. And then we
[00:48:0] just calculate the lots that we actually want to trade by dividing uh oh yeah here by dividing our risk that we want to take by the risk per lot. After rounding we can return the lots and we will use it in the on tick. But um yeah first of all we want to check if we even have to open a position. For this we check if the current time is greater than range time n and smaller than the trading time end. Then we get the bit price. We check if there was no trade on this day. We check if there was a buy breakout. So breakout above the range.
[00:48:3] Then we check yeah we also check if range high and range low is greater than zero. Then we calculate the lot size here using the calculate lots function to then open the position with a specific lot size and the stop loss is at the other side of the range and we update the is trade variable. Same thing we do for sale positions. If there's a sell breakout or short breakout below the range. Then if we are or the current time is greater or equal than the trading time end. Then we loop through all of the positions. We select every position here. We check if it has the
[00:49:0] same magic number as our program and if it's true then we just yeah open close the position and that's basically it. So very very simple interpretation of the range break on EA. You can add a lot more more complexity but this is already enough to trade the yeah some of the strategies that I trade. For example, I can show you um that I use these a settings for example in USD Japanese yen. And here we can make a test or let me use the quant data manager data or I
[00:49:3] don't have it here but yeah if I do a test like for example let's say for the last 5 years here without the visual mode with these settings from 3 to 6 and then close at 6 p.m. then with like for risk of let's say €50 and we we do it in $1,000 account. So if I start this exact uh program for around five years for the last uh about five years uh we will see this here just the performance because we know how it works visually and yeah I
[00:50:0] will quickly wait until this um this is done and then give you a little brief summary. [Music] So yeah this test is about to end. You can see roughly 5 years no compound interest effect and it's a very good performance. This was done um yeah using every tick based on real ticks. It's not like um ducascopy data. So I think the data quality is not a very very like not
[00:50:3] 100% but still I did a lot of these tests already on this channel. You can find it with actual ducas copy data. So it shows 100% data quality and it's also very good. And also this is just to show you that the program yeah how it can work. It's not a recommendation or anything. Do your own test. Stay around with this program. As I said, I use it in many many symbols. I use it in USD, Japanese yen, Jupit. It's a very versatile strategy that you can use in many many different uh charts and it's uh it's actually one of the one of the strategies where I can say with
[00:51:0] confidence that it worked in the last uh years because I'm using this strategies strategy from for many years actually in my personal life account. So this is my experience. But yeah, it's something that is proven is not something of these like shallow and shady online strategies where people just say, "Yeah, I don't know like do this. I tested this for 1 months and no, this is something that really has a fundament." And um yeah, I hope you like this little insight. It's one of my most used strategies, one of my favorite strategies. So I hope I was
[00:51:3] able to explain a little bit how to code something like this. And again, one last time, if you want to have the final version or a more advanced ver version or if you want to learn, and this is what I really recommend, if you take or if you want to take automated trading, like if you want to project in a professional way, there's no way around learning how to code. So, if you want to learn the fastest and most efficient way, check out the links in the description of this video. You'll also find my meter trader 5 masterass where you will also learn how to write the range breakout expert advisor but in a
[00:52:0] much more advanced version with a lot more functions and a lot more like refined um yeah efficiency. So with that being said, I hope that you are still around at this point that you now have your own program to test out. I wish you a lot of fun and success with that and yeah, let me know in the comments what you think. I'm out for this one. See you in the next one. Bye.
